[DOCS] Entity dashboard (#2565)
elastic/security-docs: docs/dashboards/entity-dashboard.asciidoc

[[detection-entity-dashboard]]
= Entity dashboard

> The Entity Analytics dashboard provides a centralized view of critical entity metrics, which include hosts, users, and anomalies. Use this information to determine which emerging threats pose a higher risk to your environment so you can respond quickly. 

Reviewer: The Entity Analytics dashboard provides a centralized view into emerging insider threats - including host and user risk and notable anomalies from within your network. Use these analytics to triage emerging threats, investigate and respond.

.Requirements
[sidebar]
--
The following is required to display the Entity Analytics dashboard: 

* A https://www.elastic.co/pricing/[Platinum subscription] or higher.
* To display host and user risk scores, the host risk score and user risk score features must be enabled. For more information, refer to Enable host risk score and <<deploy-user-risk-score, Enable user risk score>>.

> * To display notable anomalies, the following machine learning jobs need to be installed and run. You can do this directly from the dashboard's Notable anomalies table: 

Reviewer 2: > ... the following machine learning jobs need to be installed and run. You can do this directly from the dashboard's Notable anomalies table:

On 8.5 users can't install jobs from the table. It will link them to the ml/jobs page or to the documentation.

** `auth_rare_source_ip_for_a_user`
** `suspicious_login_activity`
** `packetbeat_dns_tunneling`
** `packetbeat_rare_server_domain`
** `packetbeat_rare_dns_question`
** `v3_windows_anomalous_script`
--

[insert screenshot, waiting for a good one]

The dashboard includes the following sections:

* Entity KPIs 
* Host risk scores
* User risk scores
* Notable anomalies 

*Entity KPIs (key performance indicators)*

Displays the total number of critical hosts, critical users, and anomalies. Select a link to go to the Host risk table, User risk table, or Anomaly Detection Jobs page. 

*Host risk scores*

> Displays host risk score metrics in your environment, including the total number of hosts, the five most recently recorded host risk scores, their host name, and host risk classification. Host risk scores are calculated using a weighted sum and are on a scale of 0 to 100. Select the *Host risk classification* menu to filter the chart by the selected classification. Click a host name link to go to the Host details page, or *View all* in the upper-right to display all host risk information on the Hosts page. 

Reviewer 3: Could we add some screenshots in here? As it mentioned about some interactions users could do, might be easier to follow with images presented.

Author: @angorayc yes, soon as I get a server that has a good amount of data, I'll add it.

> Displays host risk score metrics in your environment, including the total number of hosts, the five most recently recorded host risk scores, their host name, and host risk classification. Host risk scores are calculated using a weighted sum and are on a scale of 0 to 100. Select the *Host risk classification* menu to filter the chart by the selected classification. Click a host name link to go to the Host details page, or *View all* in the upper-right to display all host risk information on the Hosts page. 

Reviewer: `Displays host risk score metrics`

A nuanced suggestion - is it okay to use the term `analytics` instead of `metrics`? We can use host risk `score` or `classification`as applicable to the UX.

For more information about host risk scores, click the *Learn more* link in the table, or refer to <<host-risk-score>>. 

*User risk scores* 

Displays user risk score metrics in your environment, including the total number of users, the five most recently recorded user risk scores, their user name, and user risk classification. Like host risk scores, user risk scores are also calculated using a weighted sum and are on a scale of 0 to 100. Select the *User risk classification* menu to filter the chart by the selected classification. Click a user name link to go to the User details page, or *View all* in the upper-right to display all user risk information on the Users page. 

> NOTE: The host risk and user risk score tables are not affected by the date and time range. 

Reviewer 3: Could we add the link https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/security/master/user-risk-score.html here as well

*Notable anomalies*

> Anomalies identify suspicious or irregular behavior patterns. This section displays the total number of host and user anomalies identified by six predefined machine learning jobs (anomaly name). If no counts are displayed next to a machine learning job, it is uninstalled or needs to run. Click *Run job* to run the job, or *uninstalled* to find out how to install and run the job. 

Reviewer 2: > ...Click *Run job* to run the job, or *uninstalled* to find out how to install and run the job. 

The same behavior applies here. On 8.5 users can't install jobs from the table. "Run job" links them to the ml/jobs page filtered by job name.

[[detection-entity-dashboard]]

> = Entity dashboard

Reviewer 4: Should this be "Entity Analytics dashboard" to match the dashboard's title in the UI?
```suggestion
= Entity Analytics dashboard
```

> The Entity Analytics dashboard provides a centralized view into emerging insider threats - including host risk, user risk, and notable anomalies from within your network. Use these analytics to triage emerging threats, investigate, and respond.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The Entity Analytics dashboard provides a centralized view of emerging insider threats - including host risk, user risk, and notable anomalies from within your network. Use it to triage, investigate, and respond to emerging threats.
```

.Requirements
[sidebar]
--
The following is required to display the Entity Analytics dashboard: 

* A https://www.elastic.co/pricing/[Platinum subscription] or higher.

> * To display host and user risk scores, the host risk score and user risk score features must be enabled. You can do this directly from the dashboard. For more information, refer to Enable host risk score and <<deploy-user-risk-score, Enable user risk score>>.

Reviewer 5: I'm sure you know, but just flagging that Enable host risk score is not a link yet.

Reviewer 4: Also, the link that does exist (pointing to [here](https://security-docs_2565.docs-preview.app.elstc.co/guide/en/security/master/user-risk-score.html#deploy-user-risk-score)) doesn't seem that helpful because the target page is explaining the _old long way_ of enabling the feature.

This note says "you can do this directly from the dashboard" but doesn't say exactly how to do that, so a reader might think, OK, let me follow this link for more info on how to do that. But all they need to do is just push the button right on the dashboard, which we never tell them to do.

> * To display notable anomalies, the following machine learning jobs must be {ml-docs}/ml-ad-run-jobs.html[installed and run]: 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* To display notable anomalies, you must {ml-docs}/ml-ad-run-jobs.html[install and run] the following machine learning jobs: 
```

Reviewer 4: +1

** `auth_rare_source_ip_for_a_user`
** `suspicious_login_activity`
** `packetbeat_dns_tunneling`
** `packetbeat_rare_server_domain`
** `packetbeat_rare_dns_question`
** `v3_windows_anomalous_script`
--

The dashboard includes the following sections:

* Entity KPIs 
* Host risk scores
* User risk scores
* Notable anomalies 

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/entity-dashboard.png[Entity dashboard]

> *Entity KPIs (key performance indicators)*

Reviewer 4: Is there a reason why all the "headings" are plain bold text instead of actual headings? This really limits navigation, since there's no page TOC, no ability to cross-ref, etc.

> This chart displays the total number of critical hosts, critical users, and anomalies. Select a link to go to the Host risk table, User risk table, or Anomaly Detection Jobs page. 

Reviewer 4: "Chart" makes me think of a graphic representation, not just a set of numbers. Maybe just "section"?
```suggestion
This section displays the total number of critical hosts, critical users, and anomalies. Select a link to go to the Host risk table, User risk table, or Anomaly Detection Jobs page. 
```

> *Host risk scores*

Reviewer 6: Is this referring to the table name? If so, should be:

```suggestion
*Host Risk Scores*
```

> This table displays host risk score analytics in your environment, including the total number of hosts, the five most recently recorded host risk scores, their host names, and host risk classification. Host risk scores are calculated using a weighted sum on a scale of 0 to 100. 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
This table displays host risk score data for your environment, including the total number of hosts, and the five most recently recorded host risk scores, with their associated host names and risk classifications. Host risk scores are calculated using a weighted sum on a scale of 0 to 100. 
```

Reviewer 4: +1, and should we specify that higher score = higher risk? Or is that kinda obvious? I go either way on that

Author: @joepeeples I think we can assume 0-100 is low-high, but maybe I can say `0 (lowest) to 100 (highest).`

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/host-score-data.png[Host risk table]

Interact with the table to filter data or view more details: 

* Select the *Host risk classification* menu to filter the chart by the selected classification. 
* Click a host name link to go to the Host details page.
* Click *View all* in the upper-right to display all host risk information on the Hosts page. 

For more information about host risk scores, click the *Learn more* link in the table, or refer to <<host-risk-score>>. 

> *User risk scores* 

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
*User Risk Scores* 
```

Reviewer 6: Leaving this edit in case you wanted to match the doc section title with the table title.

> This table displays user risk score analytics in your environment, including the total number of users, the five most recently recorded user risk scores, their user names, and user risk classification. Like host risk scores, user risk scores are also calculated using a weighted sum on a scale of 0 to 100. 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
This table displays user risk score data for your environment, including the total number of users, and the five most recently recorded user risk scores,  with their associated user names and risk classifications. Like host risk scores, user risk scores are calculated using a weighted sum on a scale of 0 to 100. 
```

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/user-score-data.png[User risk table ]

Interact with the table to filter data or view more details:

* Select the *User risk classification* menu to filter the chart by the selected classification. 
* Click a user name link to go to the User details page. 
* Click *View all* in the upper-right to display all user risk information on the Users page. 

NOTE: The host risk and user risk score tables are not affected by the date and time range. 

[role="screenshot"]

> image::images/user-score-data.png[User risk score data]

Reviewer 6: This might be a duplicate image.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
```

*Notable anomalies*

> Anomalies identify suspicious or irregular behavior patterns. The Notable anomalies table displays the total number of host and user anomalies identified by six predefined {ml} jobs (anomaly name). To display anomaly data, these jobs must be installed and running.  

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Anomalies identify suspicious or irregular behavior patterns. The Notable anomalies table displays the total number of host and user anomalies identified by six predefined {ml} jobs (named in the Anomaly name column). These jobs must be installed and running to provide anomaly data.  
```

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Anomalies identify suspicious or irregular behavior patterns. The Notable Anomalies table displays the total number of host and user anomalies identified by six predefined {ml} jobs (anomaly name). To display anomaly data, these jobs must be installed and running.  
```

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/anomalies-table.png[Anomalies table]

> If data is missing, refer to the following: 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If data is missing: 
```

 * If the *Run job* link is displayed next to a {ml} job, it's installed but not running. Click the link to go to the Anomaly Detection Jobs page, where you can run the job.  

>  * If the  *uninstalled* link is displayed next to a {ml} job, it needs to be installed and run. Click the link to find out how to do this. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
 * If the  *uninstalled* link is displayed next to a {ml} job, it needs to be installed and started. Click the link to find out how to do this. 
```

Interact with the table to view more details:

* Click *View all host anomalies* to go to the Anomalies table on the Hosts page.

> * Click *View all users anomalies* to go to the Anomalies table on the Users page.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* Click *View all user anomalies* to go to the Anomalies table on the Users page.
```
